# AWS CloudTrail vs Amazon CloudWatch

- CloudWatch is a monitoring service for AWS resources and applications. CloudTrail  is a web service that records API activity in your AWS account. They are both useful monitoring tools in AWS.
- By default, CloudWatch offers free basic monitoring for your resources,  such as EC2 instances, EBS volumes, and RDS DB instances. CloudTrail is  also enabled by default when you create your AWS account.
- With CloudWatch, you can collect and track metrics, collect and monitor log  files, and set alarms. CloudTrail, on the other hand, logs information  on who made a request, the services used, the actions performed,  parameters for the actions, and the response elements returned by the  AWS service. CloudTrail Logs are then stored in an S3 bucket or a  CloudWatch Logs log group that you specify.
- You can enable detailed monitoring from your AWS resources to send metric  data to CloudWatch more frequently, with an additional cost.
- CloudTrail delivers one free copy of management event logs for each AWS region.  Management events include management operations performed on resources  in your AWS account, such as when a user logs in to your account.  Logging data events are charged. Data events include resource operations performed on or within the resource itself, such as S3 object-level API activity or Lambda function execution activity.
- CloudTrail helps you ensure compliance and regulatory standards.
- CloudWatch Logs reports on application logs, while CloudTrail Logs provide you  specific information on what occurred in your AWS account.
- CloudWatch Events is a near real time stream of system events describing changes  to your AWS resources. CloudTrail focuses more on AWS API calls made in  your AWS account.
- Typically, CloudTrail delivers an event within 15 minutes of the API call.  CloudWatch delivers metric data in 5 minutes periods for basic  monitoring and 1 minute periods for detailed monitoring. The CloudWatch  Logs Agent will send log data every five seconds by default.